deployments/chart/openrmf/README.md, before:

# Using Helm to deploy OpenRMF into kubernetes (k8s)

If you have helm and tiller setup you can use the helm command with the charts and values supplied
to setup the OpenRMF demo within k8s. The values.yaml file has the DNS name of what you want the 
main URL to be to use the demo via HTTP. There are other values in there for service types, version of pods, etc. The defaults for most are good to go however the install type, 3 identity provider values, the main namespace, and the DNS name are pretty important to get correct.

To install Helm into your cluster see https://helm.sh/docs/using_helm/. You can use helm and tiller or you can just use helm
locally to setup YAML files you use to deploy later w/o tiller running in your cluster. (I do the latter.)

## Steps to install the OpenRMF Software

1. Run `kubectl apply -f ./deployments/kubernetes/namespace.yaml`from the root folder within the repo. This makes the namespace to run all the pieces in.
2. For Minikube, run `kubectl apply -f ./deployments/kubernetes/pv.yaml`from the root folder within the repo. This makes the persistent volume to use. Adjust as necessary. Run this only if you need a new PV to use. For AWS or other providers see their 
documentation on making persistent volumes.
3. Run `helm install ./deployments/chart/openrmf`from the root folder within the repo. Optionally, run the `helm template chart/openrmf --output-dir DIR_NAME -n RELEASE_NAME` command to generate valid YAML files to apply to your cluster.
4. Verify by going to the HTTP(S) path shown after a successful helm install to verify it is working.

Note: Until the databases and NATS are live you will get errors in those pods connecting. If you want, deploy the databases and NATS and Keycloak first and get them setup. THEN do the rest.

---

# Values.yaml for your MUX AEW install

The values.yaml file has only 4 fields to configure. The defaults match up to the Keycloak documentation however you can make these whatever you want them to be. 

> PLEASE CHANGE THE DATABASE NAMES, USER NAMES, AND PASSWORDS BEFORE YOU DEPLOY! You can use the https://www.base64encode.net/ tool to base64 encode your connections if you need to.

## main DNS name used to access the deployed app in k8s via DNS through an ingress controller
```yaml
dnsName: openrmf.local
```
It is the DNS name that you want the ingress to respond to. This can be a DNS pointer to the IP of your k8s installation. It also could be the `minikube ip` for a local install setup in your /etc/hosts file. Whichever it is, make the name match DNS so your deployment can be accessed via a web browser.

## The Identity Provider URL and Realm, i.e. using Keycloak for AuthN and AuthZ
```yaml
identityProviderURL: http://192.168.11.22:9001/auth
```
This is the root URL of Keycloak or whatever you want to try and use as the Identity Provider. 

> If you have used Keycloak locally for OpenRMF and switched to Minikube or a DNS name be sure to update your Redirect URI values.

## The Realm to use from the ID provider
```yaml
identityProviderRealm: openrmf
```
This is the Realm name of the Identity Provider.

## The Identity Provider Client Id to use
```yaml
identityProviderClientId: openrmf
```
This is the Client Id within the realm you made for the Identity Provider.

## Namespace to use
The default namespace in k8s is `openrmf`. However, you can make this whatever you want. Create the namespace first, and then run this 
helm chart in that namespace.
```yaml
namespace: openrmf
```

## Installation Type
I have an installation type that has allowable values for `awseks` or `minikube` currently. This is used with an "if" clause for the 
service definitions in the YAML deployments.

```yaml
installType: awseks
```

## Versions of the Container Images to use
Currently the most up-to-date released versions of containers are contained by default in the values. As there are updates and fixes to 
individual images this is updated. Each one can be set individually just in case you wish to use them. They have corresponding GitHub 
repos in the https://www.github.com/Cingulara/ area.

```yaml
auditImage: 1.0
auditmsgImage: 1.0
checklistmsgImage: 1.0
complianceImage: 1.0
compliancemsgImage: 1.0
controlImage: 1.0
controlmsgImage: 1.0
readImage: 1.0
saveImage: 1.0
scoremsgImage: 1.0
scoringImage: 1.0
templateImage: 1.0
templatemsgImage: 1.0
uploadImage: 1.0
systemmsgImage: 1.0
webuiImage: 1.0
reportImage: 1.0
reportmsgImage: 1.0
mongoImage: 4.0.5
natsImage: 2.1.2-linux
```

## Persistent Volume Storage Class
The storage class for the persistent volume claims (PVC) for the database containers (for now) is defined in this variable. The default is 
standard. You also can use ebs-sc, efs-sc, or gp2 for AWS or other storage interfaces as they become available for your k8s installation.
```yaml
storageClass: gp2
```

## API URLs for the Client Side Calls
The Web UI makes client side API calls to APIs with a token for validating user access. These APIs are rewritten with a ConfigMap in k8s 
when you run the web.yaml deployment. These APIs need to be the valid endpoints for the various Read, Score, Upload, etc. API endpoints 
for the Web UI to run correctly. 

In AWS EKS I use them with top level domain names.  If you can run the NGINX Ingress controller or other 
controllers you can use paths and path-based routing.  For Minikube, I stick with the NGINX Ingress controller included as an addon.

```yaml
readAPI:       https://read.openrmf.io
scoreAPI:      https://scoring.openrmf.io
saveAPI:       https://save.openrmf.io
uploadAPI:     https://upload.openrmf.io
templateAPI:   https://template.openrmf.io
complianceAPI: https://compliance.openrmf.io
controlAPI:    https://controls.openrmf.io
reportAPI:     https://report.openrmf.io
```

## Service Types for Service definitions
For now, I have separate "ifF" sections in the Helm chart to setup Services. I did this to separate the whole service section and 
not make it too complex to read with the human eye. And I have 2 separate service types to match that. 

```yaml
serviceTypeMinikube: NodePort
serviceTypeAWS: LoadBalancer
```

## AWS ACM Certificate ARN for HTTPS access
I believe if you put this up in EKS, you need HTTPS. The ACM is extremely easy to either make a new certificate or upload a private one. When you do that you get a resource name like below.  Replace the "x's" and "y's" with the proper identification for your certificate and account to use. 
```yaml
awsACM: arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:xxxxxxxxxxxxxx:certificate/yyyyyyyyyyyyy
```

## MongoDB Database Users, Passwords, and Database Name
There are three sections for the 3 MongoDBs (for now) that store the initialization environment variables for MongoDB per their Docker information.
The initialization database user, password, and initial database are the first three. They are used in the 3 "*db.yaml" files to setup MongoDB. The 
application user and application password are used in a few places such as the API connection strings and the initialization scripts of MongoDB.

These values are used in secrets created with the database YAML definitions and used in the message and API YAML files. You also will see a 
ConfigMap mounted volume for initialization scripts in the "*db.yaml" files to setup each database with a user and the initial database collection. 
All of the values used in these are in the values.yaml file so you can define your security of user/pwd however you need to.

```yaml
checklistInitDBUser: root
checklistInitDBPassword: myp2ssw0rd
checklistInitDBName: openrmf
checklistAppUser: openrmf
checklistAppPassword: openrmf1234!
```

## Network Policies

There are a few network policies in the template directory as well. As an example, these can be used with the Calico CNI on AWS EKS https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/calico.html following these instructions. 

An example is below, used within the "openrmftest" namespace if setup. This basically says the Audit DB Mongo pod can talk over 27010 (MongoDB default port) with the Audit NATS messaging client and the Audit API. There are a few more in there with the "-policy.yaml" ending on the filename for you to use, apply, tweak, etc. 

```
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  namespace: openrmftest
  name: audit-db-connection-policy
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-mongodb
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 27017
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-nats-message-client
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-api
```

## Prometheus Operator
There is a section in the Helm chart Values.yaml file that is for the Prometheus Operator available at https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus-operator. If you use this in Kubernetes, and I highly recommend that you do,
you can set the "use" to true and then the matchLabels part of your Prometheus setup you have
in your cluster can go in here to quickly match the YAML for monitoring. See the 2 URLs for more 
information.

We have ServiceMonitor definitions for all APIs as well as the NATS messaging container as well so far
with version 0.14. When you apply that operator you can run something like `kubectl --namespace default get pods -l "release=prometheus-operator-1586292731"` to get the status.  If you are going to run it, set the Values.yaml to
true for using that operator. And then set the label name and value to use on the Prometheus Service Monitor 
sections.

You may very well still need to d/l the metrics information for Kubernetes and then run the `kubectl apply` against the metrics folder with all the YAML files. See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/metrics-server.html for more information there. 

OpenRMF Helm Chart v3 Values section is below. Note the information about `kubectl get prometheus -o yaml --all-namespaces` to find the matchLabels section you defaulted or created so the ServiceMonitor pieces are lined up well. 

```
# do you use this operator
useprometheusoperator: true

# The label name and value in name: value setup to match what the Prometheus Operator is using
# for it to know to pick up and use the ServiceMonitor setup
# To find this, run 'kubectl get prometheus -o yaml --all-namespaces' and run through the YAML
# Look for something like this that will show how it matches labels, and use that label setup
#     serviceMonitorSelector:
#       matchLabels:
#         release: prometheus-operator-1586292731

servicemonitormatchlabelname: release
servicemonitormatchlabelvalue: prometheus-operator-1586292731
```

Commit message:

update for K8s helm chart with NGINX Ingress

deployments/chart/openrmf/README.md, after:

# Using Helm to deploy OpenRMF into kubernetes (k8s)

If you have helm and tiller setup you can use the helm command with the charts and values supplied
to setup the OpenRMF demo within k8s. The values.yaml file has the DNS name of what you want the 
main URL to be to use the demo via HTTP. There are other values in there for service types, version of pods, etc. The defaults for most are good to go however the install type, 3 identity provider values, the main namespace, and the DNS name are pretty important to get correct.

To install Helm into your cluster see https://helm.sh/docs/using_helm/. You can use helm and tiller or you can just use helm
locally to setup YAML files you use to deploy later w/o tiller running in your cluster. (I do the latter.)

## Adding the NGINX Controller
Run the below to add the NGINX Controller correctly to your cluster for later steps.
```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v0.47.0/deploy/static/provider/aws/deploy.yaml 
```

## Steps to install the OpenRMF Software

1. Run `kubectl apply -f ./deployments/kubernetes/namespace.yaml`from the root folder within the repo. This makes the namespace to run all the pieces in.
2. For Minikube, run `kubectl apply -f ./deployments/kubernetes/pv.yaml`from the root folder within the repo. This makes the persistent volume to use. Adjust as necessary. Run this only if you need a new PV to use. For AWS or other providers see their documentation on making persistent volumes.
3. Run `helm template openrmfoss chart/openrmf --output-dir openrmfossdeploy` from the root folder within the repo to generate valid YAML files to apply to your cluster. 
4. Run `helm install openrmf-nginx-ingress --values openrmfossdeploy/openrmf/templates/values.nginx-ingress.yaml ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx` to deploy the NGINX Ingress controller correctly. Run `kubectl get svc` to find the main LoadBalancer for NGINX. You will need that external-ip name for mapping CNAME DNS records.
5. Run 
6. Verify by going to the HTTP(S) path shown after a successful helm install to verify it is working.
7. There are 2 ingress paths for the main NGINX Ingress as well as the Keycloak path you will need to match to the proper DNS you are using in the values for the YAML (see below)

Note: Until the databases and NATS are live you will get errors in those pods connecting. If you want, deploy the databases and NATS and Keycloak first and get them setup. THEN do the rest.

---

# Values.yaml for your MUX AEW install

The values.yaml file has only 4 fields to configure. The defaults match up to the Keycloak documentation however you can make these whatever you want them to be. 

> PLEASE CHANGE THE DATABASE NAMES, USER NAMES, AND PASSWORDS BEFORE YOU DEPLOY! You can use the https://www.base64encode.net/ tool to base64 encode your connections if you need to.

## main DNS name used to access the deployed app in k8s via DNS through an ingress controller
```yaml
dnsName: openrmf.local
```
It is the DNS name that you want the ingress to respond to. This can be a DNS pointer to the IP of your k8s installation. It also could be the `minikube ip` for a local install setup in your /etc/hosts file. Whichever it is, make the name match DNS so your deployment can be accessed via a web browser.

## The Identity Provider URL and Realm, i.e. using Keycloak for AuthN and AuthZ
```yaml
identityProviderURL: http://192.168.11.22:9001/auth
```
This is the root URL of Keycloak or whatever you want to try and use as the Identity Provider. 

> If you have used Keycloak locally for OpenRMF and switched to Minikube or a DNS name be sure to update your Redirect URI values.

## The Realm to use from the ID provider
```yaml
identityProviderRealm: openrmf
```
This is the Realm name of the Identity Provider.

## The Identity Provider Client Id to use
```yaml
identityProviderClientId: openrmf
```
This is the Client Id within the realm you made for the Identity Provider.

## Namespace to use
The default namespace in k8s is `openrmf`. However, you can make this whatever you want. Create the namespace first, and then run this 
helm chart in that namespace.
```yaml
namespace: openrmf
```

## Installation Type
I have an installation type that has allowable values for `awseks` or `minikube` currently. This is used with an "if" clause for the 
service definitions in the YAML deployments.

```yaml
installType: awseks
```

## Versions of the Container Images to use
Currently the most up-to-date released versions of containers are contained by default in the values. As there are updates and fixes to 
individual images this is updated. Each one can be set individually just in case you wish to use them. They have corresponding GitHub 
repos in the https://www.github.com/Cingulara/ area.

```yaml
auditImage: 1.0
auditmsgImage: 1.0
checklistmsgImage: 1.0
complianceImage: 1.0
compliancemsgImage: 1.0
controlImage: 1.0
controlmsgImage: 1.0
readImage: 1.0
saveImage: 1.0
scoremsgImage: 1.0
scoringImage: 1.0
templateImage: 1.0
templatemsgImage: 1.0
uploadImage: 1.0
systemmsgImage: 1.0
webuiImage: 1.0
reportImage: 1.0
reportmsgImage: 1.0
mongoImage: 4.0.5
natsImage: 2.1.2-linux
```

## Persistent Volume Storage Class
The storage class for the persistent volume claims (PVC) for the database containers (for now) is defined in this variable. The default is 
standard. You also can use ebs-sc, efs-sc, or gp2 for AWS or other storage interfaces as they become available for your k8s installation.
```yaml
storageClass: gp2
```

## API URLs for the Client Side Calls
The Web UI makes client side API calls to APIs with a token for validating user access. These APIs are rewritten with a ConfigMap in k8s 
when you run the web.yaml deployment. These APIs need to be the valid endpoints for the various Read, Score, Upload, etc. API endpoints 
for the Web UI to run correctly. 

In AWS EKS I use them with top level domain names.  If you can run the NGINX Ingress controller or other 
controllers you can use paths and path-based routing.  For Minikube, I stick with the NGINX Ingress controller included as an addon.

```yaml
readAPI:       https://read.openrmf.io
scoreAPI:      https://scoring.openrmf.io
saveAPI:       https://save.openrmf.io
uploadAPI:     https://upload.openrmf.io
templateAPI:   https://template.openrmf.io
complianceAPI: https://compliance.openrmf.io
controlAPI:    https://controls.openrmf.io
reportAPI:     https://report.openrmf.io
```

## Service Types for Service definitions
For now, I have separate "ifF" sections in the Helm chart to setup Services. I did this to separate the whole service section and 
not make it too complex to read with the human eye. And I have 2 separate service types to match that. 

```yaml
serviceTypeMinikube: NodePort
serviceTypeAWS: LoadBalancer
```

## AWS ACM Certificate ARN for HTTPS access
I believe if you put this up in EKS, you need HTTPS. The ACM is extremely easy to either make a new certificate or upload a private one. When you do that you get a resource name like below.  Replace the "x's" and "y's" with the proper identification for your certificate and account to use. 
```yaml
awsACM: arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:xxxxxxxxxxxxxx:certificate/yyyyyyyyyyyyy
```

## MongoDB Database Users, Passwords, and Database Name
There are three sections for the 3 MongoDBs (for now) that store the initialization environment variables for MongoDB per their Docker information.
The initialization database user, password, and initial database are the first three. They are used in the 3 "*db.yaml" files to setup MongoDB. The 
application user and application password are used in a few places such as the API connection strings and the initialization scripts of MongoDB.

These values are used in secrets created with the database YAML definitions and used in the message and API YAML files. You also will see a 
ConfigMap mounted volume for initialization scripts in the "*db.yaml" files to setup each database with a user and the initial database collection. 
All of the values used in these are in the values.yaml file so you can define your security of user/pwd however you need to.

```yaml
checklistInitDBUser: root
checklistInitDBPassword: myp2ssw0rd
checklistInitDBName: openrmf
checklistAppUser: openrmf
checklistAppPassword: openrmf1234!
```

## Network Policies

There are a few network policies in the template directory as well. As an example, these can be used with the Calico CNI on AWS EKS https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/calico.html following these instructions. 

An example is below, used within the "openrmftest" namespace if setup. This basically says the Audit DB Mongo pod can talk over 27010 (MongoDB default port) with the Audit NATS messaging client and the Audit API. There are a few more in there with the "-policy.yaml" ending on the filename for you to use, apply, tweak, etc. 

```
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  namespace: openrmftest
  name: audit-db-connection-policy
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-mongodb
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 27017
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-nats-message-client
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/component: audit-api
```

## Prometheus Operator
There is a section in the Helm chart Values.yaml file that is for the Prometheus Operator available at https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus-operator. If you use this in Kubernetes, and I highly recommend that you do,
you can set the "use" to true and then the matchLabels part of your Prometheus setup you have
in your cluster can go in here to quickly match the YAML for monitoring. See the 2 URLs for more 
information.

We have ServiceMonitor definitions for all APIs as well as the NATS messaging container as well so far
with version 0.14. When you apply that operator you can run something like `kubectl --namespace default get pods -l "release=prometheus-operator-1586292731"` to get the status.  If you are going to run it, set the Values.yaml to
true for using that operator. And then set the label name and value to use on the Prometheus Service Monitor 
sections.

You may very well still need to d/l the metrics information for Kubernetes and then run the `kubectl apply` against the metrics folder with all the YAML files. See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/metrics-server.html for more information there. 

OpenRMF Helm Chart v3 Values section is below. Note the information about `kubectl get prometheus -o yaml --all-namespaces` to find the matchLabels section you defaulted or created so the ServiceMonitor pieces are lined up well. 

```
# do you use this operator
useprometheusoperator: true

# The label name and value in name: value setup to match what the Prometheus Operator is using
# for it to know to pick up and use the ServiceMonitor setup
# To find this, run 'kubectl get prometheus -o yaml --all-namespaces' and run through the YAML
# Look for something like this that will show how it matches labels, and use that label setup
#     serviceMonitorSelector:
#       matchLabels:
#         release: prometheus-operator-1586292731

servicemonitormatchlabelname: release
servicemonitormatchlabelvalue: prometheus-operator-1586292731
```
