docs/domainkeycloak.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Domain Keycloak Setup
nav_order: 1010
---

# Setup Keycloak Using your Existing Keycloak Installation
If you or your company has an existing Keycloak installation you want to use, you can do that as well. There are a few steps to follow to ensure it works correctly. We setup OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS with Keycloak for AuthN/AuthZ and assume it to be running locally along side the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS stack on port 8080/auth/ as a default (as of v1.9). 

> Instructions below describe how to replace the default, internal Keycloak instance.
> If you want to use your existing SSO provider with OpenRMF it might be easier to connect the OpenRMF's Keycloak to that provider.
> You can add SSO by logging into /auth/ and going to the "Identity providers" page.

If you follow these steps below you can make it use your existing Keycloak setup. You also could modify the Keycloak ZIP you download with the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS release and do something similar to this as well, changing names or ports to run locally instead of 9001.

1. Log out of OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS in your web browser. 
2. Power down the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS stack with `stop.sh` or `stop.cmd` appropriately.
3. Edit the .env file (it may be hidden) in the directory with the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS docker files and use the correct URL and client links. The realm must be named `openrmf`.

```
JWTAUTHORITY=https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/realms/openrmf
# This URL is used for connecting from API backends to Keycloak
JWTINTERNALAUTHORITY=https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/
JWTCLIENT=openrmf
```

4. Create a new auth.js file and place in the same directory as the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS docker-compose file (see below) using your new URL base for Keycloak.

```
var keycloak = new Keycloak({
    url: 'https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/',
    realm: 'openrmf',
    clientId: 'openrmf'
});
```

5. Edit the docker-compose.yml file in the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS directory and around line 19 where "volumes:" is used you need to add a new entry like below, pointing to your new local auth.js file you just made. It will look very similar to the nginx.conf line. 

```
    volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf:ro
      - ./auth.js:/usr/share/nginx/html/js/auth.js:ro
```

6. Run ` chmod a+r ` or equivalent command across any files you do a ` git clone ` or ` git pull ` on as well as other files you make. So the container permissions allow the actual image to read the new or updated iles.
7. Run the `start.sh` or `start.cmd` to bring back up the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS Stack.
8. Go to your web browser and clear the cache and history to clean up older used OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS files.
9. Refresh your browser and go to the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS URL that you use. 
10. You should see it go to your new URL for login. 
11. As long as you set it up manually correctly you should be able to login, get your roles, redirect back to OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS and continue on!

> Don't worry, if you mess it up just go back to the https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-web/blob/master/wwwroot/js/auth.js main file and copy/paste to start over.

Commit message:

Add a note about Client configuration in custom Keycloak

docs/domainkeycloak.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Domain Keycloak Setup
nav_order: 1010
---

# Setup Keycloak Using your Existing Keycloak Installation
If you or your company has an existing Keycloak installation you want to use, you can do that as well. There are a few steps to follow to ensure it works correctly. We setup OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS with Keycloak for AuthN/AuthZ and assume it to be running locally along side the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS stack on port 8080/auth/ as a default (as of v1.9). 

> Instructions below describe how to replace the default, internal Keycloak instance.
> If you want to use your existing SSO provider with OpenRMF it might be easier to connect the OpenRMF's Keycloak to that provider.
> You can add SSO by logging into /auth/ and going to the "Identity providers" page.

If you follow these steps below you can make it use your existing Keycloak setup. You also could modify the Keycloak ZIP you download with the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS release and do something similar to this as well, changing names or ports to run locally instead of 9001.

1. Log out of OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS in your web browser. 
2. Power down the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS stack with `stop.sh` or `stop.cmd` appropriately.
3. Edit the .env file (it may be hidden) in the directory with the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS docker files and use the correct URL and client links. The realm must be named `openrmf`.

```
JWTAUTHORITY=https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/realms/openrmf
# This URL is used for connecting from API backends to Keycloak
JWTINTERNALAUTHORITY=https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/
JWTCLIENT=openrmf
```

4. Create a new auth.js file and place in the same directory as the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS docker-compose file (see below) using your new URL base for Keycloak.

```
var keycloak = new Keycloak({
    url: 'https://mykeycloak.mydomain.com/auth/',
    realm: 'openrmf',
    clientId: 'openrmf'
});
```

5. Edit the docker-compose.yml file in the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS directory and around line 19 where "volumes:" is used you need to add a new entry like below, pointing to your new local auth.js file you just made. It will look very similar to the nginx.conf line. 

```
    volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf:ro
      - ./auth.js:/usr/share/nginx/html/js/auth.js:ro
```

6. Run ` chmod a+r ` or equivalent command across any files you do a ` git clone ` or ` git pull ` on as well as other files you make. So the container permissions allow the actual image to read the new or updated iles.
7. Run the `start.sh` or `start.cmd` to bring back up the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS Stack.
8. Go to your web browser and clear the cache and history to clean up older used OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS files.
9. Refresh your browser and go to the OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS URL that you use. 
10. You should see it go to your new URL for login. 
11. As long as you set it up manually correctly you should be able to login, get your roles, redirect back to OpenRMF<sup>&reg;</sup> OSS and continue on!

OpenRMF expects a custom `roles` claim and specific role names. You can find details of that configuration in the `setup-realm-linux.sh` script.

> Don't worry, if you mess it up just go back to the https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-web/blob/master/wwwroot/js/auth.js main file and copy/paste to start over.
