docs/keycloak.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Keycloak Setup
nav_order: 1000
---

# Setup Keycloak
For the latest version of OpenRMF you must run Keycloak or a very similar OpenID AuthN/AuthZ provider.

To run a local keycloak, go to the scripts/keycloak directory and run the `./startup.sh` or `./startup.cmd` to load Keycloak loally. Then follow the steps below to run Keycloak correctly. The docker-compose used persists the Keycloak database. So once this is setup you should be good to go.  

> _Note:_ you need to use the IP to reference Keycloak and the OpenRMF tool locally. "localhost" in the concept of a container is itself, not your local machine! I have stumbled on that so many times....so putting it here now. 

## Automated Script for Setting up Keycloak
We had a contributor (KC) setup an automated way to define your realm in Keycloak with a script thankfully!  Make sure you `chmod +x` on one of the files linked below for your OS. Run the script and it asks you for the IP of the computer, the first user to make, and then connects to the jboss/keycloak container running. It adds the openrmf realm, client, password policy, roles, first administrator, as well as the default role for users to register.

> Note: You MUST have Keycloak running locally in Docker on the machine where this is run for it to work as-is.

* Mac Users can use [setup-realm-mac.sh](https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-docs/blob/master/scripts/keycloak/setup-realm-mac.sh) file.
* Linux users can use the [setup-realm-linux.sh](https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-docs/blob/master/scripts/keycloak/setup-realm-linux.sh) file. 
* Windows users, stay tuned!

## Setup Keycloak Manually

1. Log in to your Keycloak instance, whether online or within containers (docker, kubernetes) or natively on your machine

### Create your OpenRMF Realm in Keycloak first
2. Create a new Realm for "openrmf" by moving your mouse to the top left and hovering over "Master" like below. Click Add Realm and 
enter "openrmf" for the Name and fill in other details as you wish. The "openrmf" is important!

![Keycloak OpenRMF Realm Setup](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-setup-realm.png)

3. Once the openrmf realm is created, on the General tab update the Display Name and make sure Enabled is turn to ON
4. Click Save
5. Go to Login and set User Registration to ON if you wish
6. Set Require SSL appropriately (i.e. none for development locally only)
7. Set any other options you wish and click Save
8. Click on Authentication in the left menu
9. Click the Password Policy tab and set all appropriate policies (digits, special characters, upper and lower case, expiration, etc.)
10. Click Save to set all password policies

### Password Policy Screenshot
![Keycloak Password Policy](/assets/keycloak/authentication-password-policy.png)

11. Click Roles on the far left menu
12. Add the following roles: Administrator, Assessor, Download, Editor, Reader (use proper case)
13. Go to the Default Roles tab and add the Reader role, so new users can at least get Reader (if you wish)
14. Click on Clients on the far left menu
15. Click the Create Button to make a new client
16. Name it `openrmf` and make sure openid-connect is the client protocol
17. Click the Save button
18. Add the Name and Description fields
19. Set the access type to public
20. Disable the Direct Access Grants
21. Setup the Valid Redirect URIs to where your OpenRMF main root URL is (i.e. http://{ip-address}:8080/*)
22. Set the Web Origins appropriately for CORS (i.e. development could be * or your specific URL)
23. Click the Save button to save this initial setup

### Client Settings Screenshot
![Keycloak Client Settings](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-openrmf-settings.png)

24. Click on the Client Scopes tab to ensure the `roles` scope is in the right hand box to pass to OpenRMF upon login
25. Click on the Mappers tab under the openrmf Client
26. Click the Create button
27. Add a roles mapper to use just the `roles` name to pass roles to our application (we do this just in case Keycloak changes something...ours remains as this)
28. Enter 'roles' as the Name for the mapper.
29. Make sure 'User Realm Role' is selected as the Mapper Type.
30. Use 'roles' as the Token Claim Name.
31. Make the JSON type a String (see image below)
32. Save the mapper

### Roles Setup Screenshot
![Keycloak Roles](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-roles.png)


### Client Mapper Screenshot
![Keycloak Client Mapper](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-openrmf-client-mapper-roles.png)

Now you are finally done! Check the OpenRMF web application by creating a user and logging in. 

> Remember the Redirect URIs cannot be "localhost" if you are running these components inside Docker. Localhost is local to the docker container!

## Application Settings for Keycloak for running in Debug Mode
There are a few places when running in debug mode that you have to know the Keycloak URL and realm. They are listed below. Most of them deal with the APIs and validating login access to roles in the API code. And there is an Auth.js file in the web Javascript folder.  These places point to the exact URL of Keycloak to validate the login and get roles. This corresponds to the Valid Redirect URIs field in the client setup so they must be setup correctly. Otherwise you will receive an error on an invalid caller trying to authenticate your user.

* apis.js file in the `js` folder of the openrmf-web project
* auth.js file in the `js` folder of the openrmf-web project
* all the API `.vscode/launch.json` files like the picture below.

![OpenRMF Settings](/assets/keycloak/dotnet-core-keycloak-reference.png)

Now you are finally done! Check the OpenRMF web application by creating a user and logging in. 

> Remember the Redirect URIs cannot be "localhost" if you are running these components inside Docker. Localhost is local to the docker container!

## Run OpenRMF Latest Development

While in the develop branch, go to the scripts/edge directory. While in that directory run `./dev-start.sh` or `./dev-start.cmd` for your OS and let it spin up the containers for the database and website. You should see a message on how to go to port 8080 to run the application at the end. 

Remember, use the IP address of your local machine to go to it. It should redirect you to go to Keycloak and login or create a user. Once your user is setup and you can log in, you should see OpenRMF correctly!

Commit message:

updating Keycloak Theme and Login info

docs/keycloak.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Keycloak Setup
nav_order: 1000
---

# Setup Keycloak
For the latest version of OpenRMF you must run Keycloak or a very similar OpenID AuthN/AuthZ provider.

To run a local keycloak, go to the scripts/keycloak directory and run the `./startup.sh` or `./startup.cmd` to load Keycloak loally. Then follow the steps below to run Keycloak correctly. The docker-compose used persists the Keycloak database. So once this is setup you should be good to go.  

> _Note:_ you need to use the IP to reference Keycloak and the OpenRMF tool locally. "localhost" in the concept of a container is itself, not your local machine! I have stumbled on that so many times....so putting it here now. 

## Automated Script for Setting up Keycloak
We had a contributor (KC) setup an automated way to define your realm in Keycloak with a script thankfully!  Make sure you `chmod +x` on one of the files linked below for your OS. Run the script and it asks you for the IP of the computer, the first user to make, and then connects to the jboss/keycloak container running. It adds the openrmf realm, client, password policy, roles, first administrator, as well as the default role for users to register.

> Note: You MUST have Keycloak running locally in Docker on the machine where this is run for it to work as-is.

* Mac Users can use [setup-realm-mac.sh](https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-docs/blob/master/scripts/keycloak/setup-realm-mac.sh) file.
* Linux users can use the [setup-realm-linux.sh](https://github.com/Cingulara/openrmf-docs/blob/master/scripts/keycloak/setup-realm-linux.sh) file. 
* Windows users, stay tuned!

## OpenRMF Theme for Keycloak
You can separately use the OpenRMF theme we created for login and user registration. Log into the Keycloak administration page and go to the OpenRMF realm. Under the Themes tab, you can select the "openrmf" Login Theme to use our theme for login and when a user registers for an account (if allowed).

![Keycloak OpenRMF Theme](/assets/keycloak/realm-theme-settings.png)

## Login Settings
You can separately set the User Registration settings for OpenRMF, allowing people to register for your application versus an 
Keycloak Administrator having to create them. Log into the Keycloak administration page and go to the OpenRMF realm. Under the Login tab of Realm Settings, you can turn on the "User registration" option and click Save. 

Also here, you can specify "Require SSL" to something other than "none" to force HTTPS usage.

![Keycloak OpenRMF Login Settings](/assets/keycloak/realm-login-settings.png)

## Setup Keycloak Manually

1. Log in to your Keycloak instance, whether online or within containers (docker, kubernetes) or natively on your machine

### Create your OpenRMF Realm in Keycloak first
2. Create a new Realm for "openrmf" by moving your mouse to the top left and hovering over "Master" like below. Click Add Realm and 
enter "openrmf" for the Name and fill in other details as you wish. The "openrmf" is important!

![Keycloak OpenRMF Realm Setup](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-setup-realm.png)

3. Once the openrmf realm is created, on the General tab update the Display Name and make sure Enabled is turn to ON
4. Click Save
5. Go to Login and set User Registration to ON if you wish
6. Set Require SSL appropriately (i.e. none for development locally only)
7. Set any other options you wish and click Save
8. Click on Authentication in the left menu
9. Click the Password Policy tab and set all appropriate policies (digits, special characters, upper and lower case, expiration, etc.)
10. Click Save to set all password policies

### Password Policy Screenshot
![Keycloak Password Policy](/assets/keycloak/authentication-password-policy.png)

11. Click Roles on the far left menu
12. Add the following roles: Administrator, Assessor, Download, Editor, Reader (use proper case)
13. Go to the Default Roles tab and add the Reader role, so new users can at least get Reader (if you wish)
14. Click on Clients on the far left menu
15. Click the Create Button to make a new client
16. Name it `openrmf` and make sure openid-connect is the client protocol
17. Click the Save button
18. Add the Name and Description fields
19. Set the access type to public
20. Disable the Direct Access Grants
21. Setup the Valid Redirect URIs to where your OpenRMF main root URL is (i.e. http://{ip-address}:8080/*)
22. Set the Web Origins appropriately for CORS (i.e. development could be * or your specific URL)
23. Click the Save button to save this initial setup

### Client Settings Screenshot
![Keycloak Client Settings](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-openrmf-settings.png)

24. Click on the Client Scopes tab to ensure the `roles` scope is in the right hand box to pass to OpenRMF upon login
25. Click on the Mappers tab under the openrmf Client
26. Click the Create button
27. Add a roles mapper to use just the `roles` name to pass roles to our application (we do this just in case Keycloak changes something...ours remains as this)
28. Enter 'roles' as the Name for the mapper.
29. Make sure 'User Realm Role' is selected as the Mapper Type.
30. Use 'roles' as the Token Claim Name.
31. Make the JSON type a String (see image below)
32. Save the mapper

### Roles Setup Screenshot
![Keycloak Roles](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-roles.png)


### Client Mapper Screenshot
![Keycloak Client Mapper](/assets/keycloak/keycloak-openrmf-client-mapper-roles.png)

Now you are finally done! Check the OpenRMF web application by creating a user and logging in. 

> Remember the Redirect URIs cannot be "localhost" if you are running these components inside Docker. Localhost is local to the docker container!

## Application Settings for Keycloak for running in Debug Mode
There are a few places when running in debug mode that you have to know the Keycloak URL and realm. They are listed below. Most of them deal with the APIs and validating login access to roles in the API code. And there is an Auth.js file in the web Javascript folder.  These places point to the exact URL of Keycloak to validate the login and get roles. This corresponds to the Valid Redirect URIs field in the client setup so they must be setup correctly. Otherwise you will receive an error on an invalid caller trying to authenticate your user.

* apis.js file in the `js` folder of the openrmf-web project
* auth.js file in the `js` folder of the openrmf-web project
* all the API `.vscode/launch.json` files like the picture below.

![OpenRMF Settings](/assets/keycloak/dotnet-core-keycloak-reference.png)

Now you are finally done! Check the OpenRMF web application by creating a user and logging in. 

> Remember the Redirect URIs cannot be "localhost" if you are running these components inside Docker. Localhost is local to the docker container!

## Run OpenRMF Latest Development

While in the develop branch, go to the scripts/edge directory. While in that directory run `./dev-start.sh` or `./dev-start.cmd` for your OS and let it spin up the containers for the database and website. You should see a message on how to go to port 8080 to run the application at the end. 

Remember, use the IP address of your local machine to go to it. It should redirect you to go to Keycloak and login or create a user. Once your user is setup and you can log in, you should see OpenRMF correctly!
